<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet  type="text/xsl" href="mathml.xsl"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:pref="http://www.w3.org/2002/Math/preference" pref:renderer="mathplayer-dl">
  <head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="omdoc-cnx.css"/>
    <title>The OpenMath Content Dictionary error.ocd  in OMDoc form</title>
  </head>
  <body>
<div class="titleblock">
<div class="title">The OpenMath Content Dictionary error.ocd  in OMDoc form</div>
<div class="authors">Michael Kohlhase, The OpenMath Society</div>
<div class="date"/></div>


<div class="symbol" id="encodingError">
<div class="titlebox">
<span class="titleword">Concept</span>encodingError</div>
      This symbol represents the error which is returned when an application
      detects a lexical or syntactic error. It should have one argument
      which is a string, which should explain the error that occurred.
  </div>

<div class="symbol" id="algorithm">
<div class="titlebox">
<span class="titleword">Concept</span>algorithm</div>
      This symbol represents the error which is returned when an application
      raises an error due to algorithmic restrictions of the
      implementations. This includes operations not implemented or partially
      implemented, divisions by zero and other domain errors. It will have
      at least one argument, which is a string describing the problem. It
      may have a second argument which is relevant to the error.
  </div>

<div class="symbol" id="limitation">
<div class="titlebox">
<span class="titleword">Concept</span>limitation</div>
      This symbol represents the error which is returned when an application
      reads an error caused by the limitations of an implementation when
      dealing with OpenMath objects such as limits on the size of objects or
      on the kind of objects manipulated. This can include limits on the
      size of a bytearray or integer, a limit on the number of arguments of
      an application or the inability to deal with Unicode characters
      outside ISO latin 1. It will have at least one argument, which is a
      string describing the problem. It may have a second argument which is
      relevant to the error.
  </div>

<div class="symbol" id="unexpected">
<div class="titlebox">
<span class="titleword">Concept</span>unexpected</div>
      This symbol represents the error which is returned when an application
      reads an error caused by an unexpected problem. It will have
      at least one argument, which is a string describing the problem. It
      may have a second argument which is relevant to the error.
  </div>

<div class="symbol" id="asynchronousError">
<div class="titlebox">
<span class="titleword">Concept</span>asynchronousError</div>
      This symbol represents the error which is returned when an application
      encounters some asynchronous error, for example if a limit in memory
      has been reached, or an error has occurred in some system call (I/O
      error, disk full, machine down). It should have one argument, which is
      a string describing the problem.
  </div>



</body>
</html>
